What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
When a repository is initialized, a .git folder is created in the project directory which contains all the metadata for file history and version control.
A repository needs to be initialized so that an initial state is defined and that the repository can be compatible with Git version control.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
The staging area is different from the working directory because it is not an area to store and organise files, but rather a place to load files that are ready for commiting to the repository. The repository holds the files that are being tracked and the history of changes on these files, the staging area is a different concept.
The staging area offers value through allowing for revision before commiting files to the repository. This intermediate step provides the opportunity to revise commits and make changes if necessary.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
Using the git status command, the contents of the staging area can be viewed, the git diff --staged command, and other commands, I can view the changes made in the project and determine how many logical changes they amount to.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
Branches would greatly assist in keeping my history organised when I want to test an experimental feature and make a large change that I am not yet ready to commit to the master branch. I can keep the file histories separate for different branches.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Diagrams explain the position of commits and branches, and how they all relate. They also clearly state the impact of certain changes.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
The result of merging two branches is a single branch with both changes made. It is represented in the diagram as a single commit with reachability to both the merged branches because this clearly shows the history of the merge.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
Git automatic merging is quick and doesn't require additional effort from the user, however it may make changes which don't actually make sense and can introduce bugs. Manual merging takes time and can be tedious, but will assist in ensuring that only desired changes are kept in the merge.